README.md, before:

# NilsPodLib

A python package to parse logged NilsPod Binary files.

## Installation

```
pip install git+https://mad-srv.informatik.uni-erlangen.de/lo94zeny/nilspodpythonlib.git --upgrade
```

With ssh access:

```
pip install git+ssh://git@mad-srv.informatik.uni-erlangen.de/lo94zeny/nilspodpythonlib.git --upgrade
```

For development:

```
git clone https://mad-srv.informatik.uni-erlangen.de/lo94zeny/nilspodpythonlib.git
cd nilspodpythonlib
pip install -e . --upgrade
```

## Documentation

The documentation is available as SphinxDoc, which can be downloaded from the [pipelines page](https://mad-srv.informatik.uni-erlangen.de/lo94zeny/nilspodpythonlib/-/jobs/artifacts/master/download?job=docs) for each commit.
The documentation is also available [online](http://lo94zeny.mad-pages.informatik.uni-erlangen.de/nilspodpythonlib/README.html) (only from the FAU university network).

Supplementary examples can be found in the [examples folder](https://mad-srv.informatik.uni-erlangen.de/lo94zeny/nilspodpythonlib/tree/master/examples) of the git project.

## Legacy Support

The library aims to support the files recorded with the following NilsPod Firmware versions:

| Firmware      | Support           |
| ------------- |:------------------|
| 0.14.x        | full              |
| 0.13.255      | partial **        |
| 0.13.x        | legacy support    |
| 0.12.x        | legacy support    |
| 0.11.>2       | legacy support    |


\*\* 0.13.255 is the firmware version of older files converted to a compatible format.
They can be loaded as normal files, but certain header infos might not be supported.
See the docstrings of the specific conversion functions for more detail on supported features and potential issues.

In case of *legacy support*, the library provides methods to convert the old fileformat to the new.
Here is an example for a session using the legacy 0.11.2 format.

```python
from NilsPodLib.legacy import convert_11_2
from NilsPodLib import Dataset

file_path = '...'  # Path to original file
new_file_path = '...'  # new path to converted file

convert_11_2(file_path, new_file_path)

ds = Dataset.from_bin_file(new_file_path)
```

Commit message:

Explained new resolve para in README

README.md, after:

# NilsPodLib

A python package to parse logged NilsPod Binary files.

## Installation

```
pip install git+https://mad-srv.informatik.uni-erlangen.de/lo94zeny/nilspodpythonlib.git --upgrade
```

With ssh access:

```
pip install git+ssh://git@mad-srv.informatik.uni-erlangen.de/lo94zeny/nilspodpythonlib.git --upgrade
```

For development:

```
git clone https://mad-srv.informatik.uni-erlangen.de/lo94zeny/nilspodpythonlib.git
cd nilspodpythonlib
pip install -e . --upgrade
```

## Documentation

The documentation is available as SphinxDoc, which can be downloaded from the [pipelines page](https://mad-srv.informatik.uni-erlangen.de/lo94zeny/nilspodpythonlib/-/jobs/artifacts/master/download?job=docs) for each commit.
The documentation is also available [online](http://lo94zeny.mad-pages.informatik.uni-erlangen.de/nilspodpythonlib/README.html) (only from the FAU university network).

Supplementary examples can be found in the [examples folder](https://mad-srv.informatik.uni-erlangen.de/lo94zeny/nilspodpythonlib/tree/master/examples) of the git project.

## Legacy Support

The library aims to support the files recorded with the following NilsPod Firmware versions:

| Firmware      | Support           |
| ------------- |:------------------|
| 0.14.x        | full              |
| 0.13.255      | partial **        |
| 0.13.x        | legacy support    |
| 0.12.x        | legacy support    |
| 0.11.>2       | legacy support    |


\*\* 0.13.255 is the firmware version of older files converted to a compatible format.
They can be loaded as normal files, but certain header infos might not be supported.
See the docstrings of the specific conversion functions for more detail on supported features and potential issues.

In case of *legacy support*, the library provides methods to convert the old fileformat to the new.
There are two ways to do this:

The easiest way (but with the least control), is to simply pass `legacy_support="resolve"` to any function that can load a Dataset or Session.
This will automatically pick a conversion function, apply it and then load you Dataset without touching your original file.

Here is an example for a session using the legacy 0.11.2 format:
```python
from NilsPodLib import Dataset

file_path = '...'  # Path to original file

ds = Dataset.from_bin_file(file_path, legacy_support="resolve")
print(ds.info.version_firmware)  # 0.13.255
```

If you do not want to convert your file every time, you can perform the conversion and save the result:
Here is an example for a session using the legacy 0.11.2 format.

```python
from NilsPodLib.legacy import convert_11_2
from NilsPodLib import Dataset

file_path = '...'  # Path to original file
new_file_path = '...'  # new path to converted file

convert_11_2(file_path, new_file_path)

ds = Dataset.from_bin_file(new_file_path)
print(ds.info.version_firmware)  # 0.13.255
```
